Hello everyone.
Welcome to Java Graphics session.
My name is Gerard Ziemski.
I'm Java Classes Engineer and
my responsibility is graphics.
I would like to welcome
also Vladimir Lotak.
Vlad, tell us who you are.
Hi there.
I work on Java Classes and my specialty
would be anything to do with events.
Vlad will help me with some demos.
So, let's get started.
Session overview.
In this session we'll cover three topics.
First of all,
I'll give you a brief introduction
to Java graphics on Mac OS X for the
benefits of those of you who do not
know that much about Java graphics.
And specifically I'll focus on some
of the features Mac OS X provides you.
Then I will talk about advanced topics.
In that part I will talk to
you about things that you as a
developer should be aware of.
Things that may help you
explain and understand how to
make the most of your program,
how to make it run the
fastest as possible.
And if something goes wrong,
possibly tell you why things go wrong.
And specifically I will focus on
graphics performance and imaging.
And then I'll talk about future.
And there, in that part,
I'll tell you a bit where we come
from and what we are thinking of
doing next with Java graphics,
specifically on Mac OS X.
So let's talk about
Java graphics on Mac OS X.
Again,
here I will try to inject some of the
details and implementation specific
details of Mac OS X implementation
for Java graphics.
First of all,
you have to realize that our
implementation of Java graphics on
Mac OS X is based on the Quartz engine.
When we started working on
Java2D implementation some time ago,
we had a choice.
We could have gone with the SAN provided
source code that implemented
the renderer and its software.
We could have done that.
In this way,
we would stay very closely matched with
what Java graphics looks like and how
it behaves like on other platforms.
We also had a choice to
base our own implementation
of Java graphics on Quartz,
and we decided to go with Quartz.
I'll talk in this part
about three things.
First, I'll introduce to you
briefly the graphics,
original graphics object and
what you could do with it.
Then I'll talk a little bit in more
detail about the Graphics2D features.
And lastly,
I'll talk to you about specific
features that Mac OS X brings with
its Java graphics implementation.
The original graphics object.
The original graphics object was
primarily designed to be fast
and the key underlying concept
in graphics was to make it fast,
all the primitives were
supposed to go over the network.
So the primitives were limited in scopes,
they were very basic and
that's what you have.
With the original graphics
object you could draw lines,
rectangles, ovals, polygons,
simple graphics primitives,
but they were fast.
You had limited access to the color.
What you basically had was a solid color.
You could choose whatever you wanted to,
but it had to be a solid color.
Moreover, transparency,
the alpha channel,
it was all tricky to access that.
And in Graphics2D,
that feature has been added to
make it much more easier for
you to play with transparency.
Original Graphics Object had
very limited support for images.
It had only one type of an image,
which in a way makes it
a little bit simpler,
because with Graphics2D you have,
I'll talk about this a little bit more,
you have several different buffered
image types and depending on the platform
and depending on how you use them,
things may not go as smoothly
as you would want them to be.
So the basic images support
was there in Graphics Object.
You could do things like animation
using the producer-consumer model.
So you could do some interesting
things with Graphics,
but Graphics2D goes
much more beyond that.
In text, you had very basic also
support for the text.
What you could do primarily
was simply draw a string.
That was about it that you
could do with Graphics.
So as you can see,
you can do a lot of things with Graphics.
You can do a lot of things with graphics.
Graphics2D is, first of all,
highly extensible.
What that means is if there
is something missing in
Graphics2D that you wanted to have,
you have interface that are provided
for you that you can simply implement.
You can create your own objects,
and you can simply take them,
plug them in,
and everything else will just work.
It is also low-level.
What that means is it gives you an
access to things that really covered
the basics of what graphics is.
For example,
with buffered images you have the
access directly to the pixels.
You can find information about
the layout of the pixels.
All of that is encapsulated
in the raster objects,
color model.
You can look it up,
and you can find out information about
this and use it to your advantage.
So you have an access to really low level
[Transcript missing]
If you wanted to implement
modern web browser,
you could do this.
The Java advanced images itself,
which we don't have on Mac OS X,
But Java Advanced Images itself is
implemented on top of Graphics2D.
They didn't have to implement
their specific native hooks in
order to do some fancy stuff.
All of that, the underlying features are
already there in Graphics2D.
Graphics2D,
in order to understand Graphics2D,
be really successful using it,
you have to realize and you have to
really understand three basic principles,
and that is, what is graphic context?
What are the graphics context attributes
and also the graphics objects?
So what are those?
The graphics context is,
you can think of it as the surface.
If you're drawing whatever it is,
a primitive image, single pixel,
you have to draw it somewhere.
That is represented to
you as a graphics context.
Graphics Context Attributes.
This lets you control the
The features of the context itself,
things like what kind of
color you want to use,
what kind of color model,
do you want to use transparency or not,
do you want to use
transformation matrix or not,
those are the graphics
context attributes.
You should be familiar with those.
What is there, what is available,
how to use them?
Graphics objects,
those refer to the actual
objects that you can render.
So those are basically shapes, images,
and text.
All of them are represented as objects,
and you can do some interesting things
with them because they're objects.
Now, if you want to be really
successful with Graphics2D,
you have to go a little bit beyond that,
and you should have a clear understanding
of buffered images and transformations.
And right here,
I'll talk to you a little bit more about
buffered images and transformations.
This is a basic concept in Graphics
and if you want to play with them
and if you want to combine them,
you need to realize
what effects they have.
And also it is important to you as a
developer because we do have some bugs.
So you need to be aware of,
it would be helpful if you knew
what the effect of combination of
transformations is supposed to be.
If things go wrong,
you should be able to realize
that this is probably not because
you're doing something wrong,
but it's probably because there
is a bug in our implementation
and then just tell us about this,
we'll fix it.
So right here I'll tell you--
I'll just give you three examples
of the Graphics2D features.
Because our implementation
is based on Quartz,
you can do all of that in Quartz.
And on the left I showed you
an example of the concept,
the name of the concept
as it refers to in Java.
On the right I show you just bits of
information of what we as Apple had
to do in order to make it run,
to implement this using Quartz.
So first, shape objects.
Shape objects.
They are primarily defined as paths.
If you look at Quartz,
everything in there, even a line,
the line is not just a line.
It is a path.
In Graphics2D,
you have an access to that.
So what is a pad?
This is a concept of your visual pen.
You pick up a pen, you put it down,
and you start drawing.
You start defining a pad.
The pad can consist of line segments,
can consist of cubic
and quadratic curves.
So this is basic concept behind shapes,
but now we have shape
objects here in Graphics2D,
and that means you can do
some interesting things.
For example,
you can use a shape and actually
use it not only to draw,
but for example to define a clip.
So we have an example here
where we had a glyph vector,
and then we simply asked the
glyph vector for its shape,
and once we had that shape object,
we simply used it not only
to draw it on the surface,
but to define a clip.
This is an example.
So this is an example of objects in Java.
Now we have an access
also to compositing.
This is an interesting
feature because nowadays,
and I'm sure you're familiar
with Aqua Look and Feel,
so you can see how
many transparencies and
and Andy Eliasson are involved in
drawing modern graphics user interface.
You have an access to all of
that through compositing model.
So for example,
what you can do is you can set
different transparency values and
then obtain interesting effects.
If you wanted to implement nice
drag and drop feedback action,
you can simply render the object
that you're about to drag as a
translucent image and you can use that
in order to give feedback to the user.
You can do that very
easily with transparencies.
and Mike Skipwin.
Strokes.
This is another interesting
feature in Java2D.
You not only can render a line, a path,
[Transcript missing]
So beyond Java2D,
because our implementation
is based on Quartz,
What is important to you is
to realize that on Mac OS X,
Windows all double buffered.
If you use swing application,
There is a way to turn on or off
double buffering in the swing.
On Mac OS X,
that operation is set to a no-op.
You can try and set it
to be double buffered,
but because the windows on
Mac OS X are already double buffered,
we don't do anything.
However,
you may want and try to implement
your own double buffering mechanism.
In some instances,
that might be necessary.
However, most of the time you should
not probably do that.
What you will end up doing is
simply triple buffer and you
will pay a penalty for that.
So, with your application just try
and run it in Mac OS X and see
whether you really require your
own double buffering mechanism.
Probably you will not.
PDF underpinnings.
Quartz itself uses PDF to describe a
scene in a resolution-independent way.
What it means is if your
destination context is screen,
the pixels are actually baked
in at a certain resolution,
the resolution of the screen,
and that's how it is presented
then on the final destination,
final context, which is your screen.
However, you can render your scene
to a printer, which is a different device
accessible to you from Java2D.
If you do that,
you're seen as being rendered
in a resolution-independent way.
What you could do is then specify,
I don't really want to print it.
I want to save it, for example,
as a PDF file.
And what you will get is right
from your Java application,
Your scene can be rendered
in a PDF file very,
very easily.
So somebody asked me yesterday a
question about they had a problem
and what they wanted to do was
they wanted to do exactly this,
except they probably didn't realize that
this support is already in there.
What they tried to do was,
they tried to render an image,
they tried to render
a scene into an image,
and because the printer has much
higher resolution than a screen,
what they tried to do was they tried to
render their scene in a much bigger image
so that once they created the image,
once they rendered their
scene into the image,
they simply wanted to send that
image right to the printer.
Now, the problem was they weren't sure
what is the resolution of the printer.
So that's one of the problems.
The second problem is once
you render it to the image,
what you're sending to the
printer then is this huge job.
An image is simply a bunch of pixels.
It's a bitmap.
It's a lot of information
to send to a printer.
It would be much easier to
simply create a PDF file and
then send that to the printer.
Can we take this off, please?
Go to the slides.
This one.
and Fun Support.
Now again, when we had the source code,
when we were starting to work on
graphics on Java2D on Mac OS X,
We also had a choice to go with Sans'
own sort of renderer for the fonts.
We decided not to.
We decided to go with Quartz.
And because of that,
we get beautiful looking,
beautifully anti-alias fonts.
That's what we have here in Mac OS X.
So let's move on.
So this is the second
part of the session,
advanced topics.
I call it advanced,
but it doesn't mean it's difficult.
It simply means that I'll cover
here some topics that may not be,
you may not think of them necessarily.
You may not be aware of them,
but you probably should.
So I'll talk to you
about rendering hints,
the graphical context in more detail,
and graphics for acceleration,
and then I'll give you
some hints and tips.
Rendering hints.
First of all,
they're optional to implement.
On Mac OS X,
we have support for only few hints.
We have support for text rendering
hints and graphics rendering hints.
Now, the default settings of these hints
on other platforms is different
than what it is on Mac OS X.
That is because on Mac OS X,
we have implemented our
own Aqua look and feel,
and we wanted that to match
as closely as possible to the
native Aqua look and feel.
What that means is we had to turn
anti-aliasing on for the text.
Otherwise, you would see the buttons with
this ugly non-aliased text.
It just didn't look good.
So we had to do this.
However,
if you know that your application
does not need to use the hints
and to use the anti-aliasing,
you can override that.
You can use the runtime options
for the text and for the graphics,
and you can set it to false.
Also, what you could do is,
in your applications,
once you have the access to
the graphics to the object,
you can use the setRenderingHint method
and set your hints to whatever you want.
And lastly,
there are other rendering hints.
For example,
there is a rendering hint that lets you
specify what kind of interpolation
to use for your images that you draw
on a screen and those images are
scaled either upwards or downwards.
This hint,
the support for it exists in Quartz,
and the implementation of
this will not be difficult.
However, that's one of the hints,
for example, that we're missing.
So, yes, on Mac OS X,
we don't implement all of
the rendering hints yet,
but we probably will.
Graphical context.
Let's talk about this in a little detail.
Now this is important
for you to understand.
First of all,
conceptually you have to understand
that there are two different
types of context depending on the
What kind of service do they provide?
You have a source context,
an image for example,
where its purpose is simply to
serve as a source of the pixels,
and you simply grab pixels
from the source context,
and then you do whatever
you want with them.
And usually what that ends up
being is you simply put them down,
or your destination context.
So we have two types of context,
source and destination.
And then based on their
image representation,
there also can be of different types.
Now this comes because in
Java2D you have buffered images.
And buffered images were added
because there was a need to represent
platform specific types of images.
So you have,
you have types of images such as RGB,
RBGR, and here is where problems
may occur on Mac OS X.
So, let's look at the problems
So let's talk about
the flow of the pixels.
If you think about your Java application,
then this would be this box on the right.
What you usually do is you
have a source of a pixel,
whatever it is,
the source context or your graphics
primitives object that you want to draw.
They go then and they end up being
drawn on the graphics context,
the destination in your Java application.
However,
this is not the end of life of pixels.
The way they're being displayed on
the screen is they have to be natively
put almost physically on the screen.
How does that happen?
Well, natively there is another context,
the final destination context,
which represents a window,
which represents screen.
In Quartz,
that is the native window surface.
Now the problem here is that
In Java,
you have the access to many different
types of context based on their
image representation and also on the
color space model that you're using.
However, when we had to implement
this on Mac OS X,
we were slightly limited.
So, suppose this is how many different
context types you have in Java.
Then Quartz can only represent that many,
a subset of original
Java2D types of context,
can represent only that
many as a source context.
Then, again, you take a subset of that,
and this is what Quartz can
do as a destination context.
And then yet another step,
you take a subset of that,
and only this is the subset of
context that Quartz can use in order
to draw on the final destination.
So, what is of interest to us is that
natively there are only two context
types that Quartz can handle.
And that is the RGB, the integer,
32-bit representation, and RGB,
16-bit representation.
So let's go to the demo.
Can we turn this on?
Right.
Let me show you what
that means in practice.
So, Vlad, what is the buffered image
type we have set right now?
We are running 16-bit RGB 555.
So this is what we have it set right now.
The key point here also
is that the computer,
the monitor itself is
set to 1000 color mode.
What this means is if you
refer to this picture,
All the contexts match.
Why?
Because the monitor is set
to thousands colors mode,
which is 16-bit.
And then we use a perfect image,
which is 555, which is 16-bit.
So there's no conversion that needs
to happen anywhere on this path.
So the pixels just flow.
So this is the best we can do.
And what is the frame rate?
Anywhere in between 120
to 140 frames a second.
Alright, so let's remember that number.
Now let's switch to another type.
Alright,
you can see it's a little bit slower.
What is the frame rate?
And that's about half of
what we were getting before,
70 roughly.
And the type of the context right there,
the image?
And we are looking at 32-bit
alpha RGB pre-multiplied.
So natively, this is a context that
actually Quartz can handle.
However, the
Because the computer,
the monitor is set to thousands of modes,
right now it cannot handle that directly.
So there needs to be
conversion that takes place,
and that conversion
takes place right here.
It doesn't happen in Java,
it happens in Quartz itself,
but the conversion takes place
and we are losing some speed.
As you can see,
we only get half of the speed.
And can we switch to another time?
Sure.
Now we are looking at a 32-bit
A BGR pre-multiplied and we are
about 25% of the original speed,
45 or so frames a second.
So we are slower yet again.
Now why?
You have to realize the key
point here is this is BGR type.
What that means is for every single
frame we have to walk through every
single pixel and we have to swap R and B.
So this is an example where things
go wrong right here in this step.
This happens in Java code and this is
the code that we are responsible for.
Right now we are not using things
like Altevec to try and optimize that.
We could and probably we will.
So there are things that we can
do about this to speed it up.
However, right now you just have to
pay penalty and that penalty
is never going to go away.
We can make it smaller by trying to
use smarter algorithms but we can
do things like for example capitals.
We can cache pixels once we swap R and B.
Why not?
Because if you have a buffered image
you have the access to data buffers.
If you have the access to data
buffers we do not know when you
can draw directly on those pixels.
So we cannot detect that.
What that means is we have to assume
that once you call data buffer,
you call getRaster, and then you extract
from the data buffer,
you start manipulating the pixels,
which is the case you
have to do for animation,
for example.
We cannot cache that conversion.
That conversion has to happen
for every single frame.
So there's penalty, speed penalty.
It's never going to go away.
It will get smaller with
better implementations.
And we can do that.
We'll work on that.
Thanks.
Slides off.
Can we take slides off here?
On JavaDev,
there was a thread about three
weeks ago and some of you asked,
"So what's the deal
with the Plasma Output?
Why is it so slow?" And the
reason was actually two-fold.
First of all, the original,
the Plasma Output uses the
original image type and it uses
the producer-consumer model,
which means that when
we try and render that,
we have to convert that
image into a buffered image.
So this is where the penalty happens,
first of all,
because we have to create a buffered
image object for every single frame.
So we have to do that.
And also, unfortunately, well,
more fortunately,
Plasma Output uses the index color model.
Index color model in back days,
it was used as a sort
of compression object.
in order to...
In order to represent an image
in a smaller number of pixels,
we had index color.
So the color was represented
simply by an index,
by a simple number, as opposed to,
for example, 32-bit value for a pixel.
However, right now on Mac OS X,
we don't support index images directly.
So what happens is we have to
convert the index color model
to the direct color model,
and that incurs a penalty.
However, there are things you can do
about this as a developer.
First of all,
important things to realize is that
So this is just pieces of the
code that are in original applet,
the Plasma applet.
What you can do is you can
switch to using buffered images.
and Don Hardcode the
types of the context.
Because you never know what can change
in the underlying implementation.
Quartz may decide to implement
different destination context
that may be faster and we may
want to switch to them internally.
So there's a way for you
to obtain the best context
without hardcoding any values.
And this is a piece of code
that shows you how to do this.
So notice there we don't
hardcode anything there,
especially the type of the context.
We just ask the system questions.
Give me your graphics environment.
Give me your device.
Give me the configuration.
And give me the default color model.
We ask all those questions
and then we create a buffered
image to represent our context.
We use that information.
And then you're guaranteed
that if you do this,
on Mac OS X,
you're going to get a lot of information.
And you'll get the best matching context.
And keep in mind,
if your monitor is set to 32 bit mode,
millions of colors,
then it will end up being
the integer ARGB pre.
And if your monitor is set to 16,
to thousands of colors mode,
then that will end up
being new short 555 RGB.
But don't hardcode those values anywhere.
Can we switch to demo one, please?
I will show you now the Plasma
Upload as modified by me.
Vlad is trying to get that ready.
I'll show you that demo later.
In the meantime,
let's go to another slide.
Hardware acceleration.
This is a topic I like to talk about.
Introduction.
We ready?
Mm-hmm.
Okay,
do you guys want to see the Plasma demo?
Just speed it up?
Okay.
Can we switch, please, to demo one again?
is a-- it's in that iBook?
We're running this on the iBooks,
so the frames rates will
not be as impressive.
But relatively to each other,
this should still give you an idea.
Right now we're running at
about 34 frames per second.
This is the modified version.
Remember,
the modification was pretty much only
making sure we're using the correct
Context type.
That's all.
So this is the new one, modified.
So we get 32, maximum 37.
And now let's run the original
This is the original one
running at around 22,
21, 20 frames per second.
So you have, there was 35 say versus 22.
So you have nice,
Nice increase in speed
by not doing much at all,
just making sure we're using
the correct image type.
That's all.
So let's move on and talk
about hardware acceleration.
Here we have some demo machines.
There are dual 1 GHz machines.
The performance of them is 15 gigaflops.
One gigaflop is one billion
floating operations per second.
You may be surprised to know that
there is actually equally faster
CPU sitting right in there in this box,
and that is the graphics video card.
Those computers have GeForce
4 MX video graphics card,
which have performance of 15 gigaflops.
So let's take an advantage of that.
And this is where hardware
acceleration comes in.
Normally, this CPU,
this graphical processing unit that sits
right there on your video graphics card,
is not doing much at all.
So hardware acceleration is trying
to actually utilize that extra CPU,
if you will.
Now, on Mac OS X, there's only one way to
achieve hardware acceleration,
and that is through OpenGL.
You'll hear a lot about OpenGL.
You probably heard about Quartz Extreme.
So if you are interested
in graphics on Mac OS X,
I would suggest that you pay attention
to where OpenGL is moving because
it is going to be an underlying
mechanism for us implementing
hardware acceleration efforts.
Because we're using OpenGL,
OpenGL was designed with speed in mind
as opposed to Quartz where these guys
really pay attention to the quality.
And you look at every single pixel
and it's just almost hand tweaked
by these guys to look pretty.
OpenGL doesn't care much
about anti-alias pixels,
it cares about the speed.
So if you use hardware acceleration,
you'll gain the speed but
you will lose the quality.
You have to be aware of that.
The activation.
Many of you were unhappy with our
decision to use the opt-in mechanism
for turning on hardware acceleration.
Because what that means for you is
whenever we introduce a new computer,
you have to update your application.
We understood that and we changed
that mechanism to be opt-out.
So I think we'll be happier with that.
Once you start playing with this,
please give us feedback on this.
Heuristic and fallbacks.
There are things we cannot do
using hardware acceleration yet.
In those cases, we will have to fall back
on the solder renderer,
on the Quartz,
make an under Quartz
itself to render the scene.
We are using heuristic in order to
determine what we can do using higher
acceleration and what we can't do.
For example,
drawing fonts at sizes larger than 24.
is not going to be hardware accelerated.
Why not?
Because the way we hardware accelerate
the text is we render every single
glyph off screen to an image.
And then when the time comes
to actually draw the text,
we are simply extracting those
pieces of the image and we're
blotting them on the screen.
So this is very fast.
However, if you increase the font size,
at a certain point,
the image we would have to create
in order to represent the glyphs
is going to be just too big and
is going to be too memory--.
It would take too much memory
in order to represent that.
So, for example,
heuristic is the piece of the code
that determines when we can use our
acceleration and we cannot use it.
UI framework implications.
What this refers to is
basically do not double buffer.
If you want to use hardware acceleration,
do not double buffer because
OpenGL is a mechanism for
accelerating drawing on screen.
If you double buffer,
it means that you're rendering a
scene to buffered image off screen.
That is not being hardware accelerated.
We cannot do that yet.
We will.
So let me show you then a
demo of hardware acceleration.
Can we switch to demo one?
Give it another second, Gerard.
Another second?
Okay.
Can we go back to slides, please?
Power Acceleration.
Now, let me tell you... I'll have two
different demos showing two different...
Two different issues where
hardware acceleration helps.
First of all, images.
If you think of the flow of the
pixels in a slightly different way,
you have to realize that if
you have a buffered image,
for example, that represents your image,
the pixels live in your RAM.
In order to show them on the screen,
they have to go through the CPU bus,
they have to go to the
video graphics card,
and then from the video
graphics card to the screen.
That's a long path.
So what can we do about this?
Well, with OpenGL,
and this is an implementation detail,
what you can do is we can represent
the static images as textures.
So then we upload it once
to the video graphics card,
then the image, all the pixels,
live right there on the
video graphics card itself.
When you want to render that image,
we simply say,
render the texture with that number,
with that index.
and then when you think about this,
the flow of the pixel,
the path the pixels have to go through in
order to be shown on the screen is much,
much shorter.
They simply, they already exist,
they live on the video graphics card.
So in order to be shown to the screen,
they take a very, very short path.
Right from the video RAM to the screen.
Boom.
That's it.
So this is one aspect of
hardware acceleration.
Now another one is if you render
simple primitives like drawing lines,
rectangles,
this is what the hardware--this is what
the Video Graphics card were designed for
in order to speed up those operations.
So those are not bus intensive.
So for example,
the same demo just drawing
lines on my app book versus on
this dual 1 gigahertz machine,
the demo that would simply
render lines is not going to
be that different because...
The call to draw a line is very simple.
We just pass four parameters, x, y,
and another x, y, and that's it.
[Transcript missing]
ImageTiles demo.
This one will show off the images.
So we have an image here.
Another thing to keep in mind
is with hardware acceleration,
transformations are for free.
If you think about software
renderer like Quartz,
if you apply a transformation matrix,
then every single pixel has to be
remapped using a software algorithm,
an algorithm in software.
Here, the hardware will do
all that job for you.
So, it is a little bit of cheating, but,
well, I'll show you.
So, we can do this.
Let's reset that.
And let's look at the
frame per second rate.
So we are getting around
300 frames per second.
Now let me switch
hardware acceleration off.
This is with hardware acceleration off.
Now it is Quartz that is
doing all of the work.
14 frames per second.
So this is a demo showing you the images.
Now let me show you a simple demo
that shows you the performance of
drawing simple graphics primitives.
Drawing lines.
So here we have a very
simple 3D model viewer.
So we have 63 frames per second
and around 1500 lines every frame.
We have this model,
So this is how it looks with
hardware acceleration on.
Let me go back to a very simple model,
Qube.
There's no perspective here,
so that's why it looks a little weird.
Let me turn hardware acceleration off.
So this is with hardware
acceleration off.
I'm not sure if you can guys tell
whether this looks better or not.
But this is hardware acceleration off.
So we're starting with very small,
very simple model.
This is it.
This model.
Look how slow things get.
and this.
Now let me turn hardware
acceleration on right here.
Did you see any difference
in the quality of the model?
Although, let me turn it off.
This is the Quartz
hardware acceleration off.
This is OpenGL hardware acceleration on.
Now,
if your application cares to draw many,
many lines per second,
then probably you're not going to miss
those pixels that are anti-aliased
and look just slightly bit better.
So there are certain applications
which you can simply not do if you
do not have hardware acceleration.
Can we have slides, please?
That was a demo.
And now hints and tips.
Use hardware acceleration if possible.
Just turn it on, see if it helps.
If it doesn't help, turn it off,
leave it off, don't worry.
If it helps, fine, use it.
Use appropriate image types.
Don't hard code them.
I showed you a piece of code that
showed you how to find out what
is the best representation of
an image on a specific platform.
It's not platform specific.
There wasn't any coding there.
We didn't hard code anything.
We just asked questions.
Use clipping if possible.
If you know there's a scene
where you don't have to bother
rendering certain parts of it,
use clipping in order to make
it smaller and easier for the
underlying mechanism to draw.
Cache fonts objects.
Creating font objects on Mac OS X in
Java is a very expensive call.
So if you have to work with fonts,
cache them.
Don't recreate them.
Do not double buff.
and do not mix AWT and swing.
Now the future.
1.4 is our future and we're moving there.
We started working on this and you'll
have a developer preview of our 1.4.
You can play with this.
And there are certain
interesting features in 1.4
that we're looking forward to.
For example,
Plugable Image I/O Framework.
This is an interesting feature.
It makes your application not really
care about understanding what the
underlying image representation is,
whether it is PNG or JPEG or TIFF.
Somebody else,
a third party can implement a
plugin for you and you can simply
use it in your code and your
application doesn't have to care,
doesn't have to know what is the
actual representation of the image.
In 1.4 we also get better
font and text support.
And now this is an interesting point.
True type hinted fonts.
Now you remember me mentioning
to you that we're not using
the sans solver font renderer.
We're using Quartz to render fonts.
So things like this,
they're already there.
Because we're using Quartz,
because Quartz supports
true type hinted fonts,
we support true type hinted fonts.
So we already have that feature.
Unicode 3.0 binding algorithm,
that will help you if your application
has to be internationalized.
If you need to handle
Hebrew or Arabic text.
This algorithm will help you
determine the layout of the text.
So it's not a nice feature.
We're looking forward to having that.
Also in 1.4 you'll have a
full portrait of Compositing
Rules support so you can play with
the transparencies and with alphas.
In more greater detail than was possible.
And on this slide,
I put these two features
specifically together because they're
interesting from our point of view.
First of all, new pipeline architecture,
that is 1.4.
What that refers to is it gives you,
it tries and cash
the attributes of the context.
So if you set a color,
if you change one color to the other,
it will not invalidate into our pipeline.
It will try and be smart about this and
not try to invalidate into our pipeline,
but just the piece of the code that
represents the graphics attributes.
Now, this is interesting to us because we
already have that in our implementation.
We already have the
architecture that supports that.
For those of you who were here last year,
we talked to you about our pen model,
and this is something that
John Berkey came up with,
and I helped him implement this.
Hey, John.
And so we already have that.
Volatile Images.
This is what SAN does in order to
hardware accelerate drawing primitives.
Again, I just showed you the
hardware acceleration demo.
We are already doing this.
Now the difference here is that
because Swing is double buffered,
they
decided to optimize off-screen drawing.
So they came up with this volatile image
object that lets you hardware accelerate
your scene to off-screen context.
That's slightly different from
what a hardware acceleration is,
which
In our case,
we only have the on-screen context.
So that's pretty much the difference,
but we can and we will do this as well.
And the interesting point is that we
already went through much of this,
so we already know how to do this.
It will be pretty easy for us to actually
implement a lot of images on Mac OS X.
And it's really very
similar to what we have.
They offer fast paths for images,
and so do we.
And I explained to you why those
static images can be hard to
accelerate and can be drawn very,
very fast.
And they support basic 2D operations.
We go a little bit beyond that.
We try to optimize more primitives,
but we are so limited.
But we can certainly do
what Volta images can do.
And they also cast glyphs
for high-tech performance
[Transcript missing]
So these two features are
interesting because you guys
already actually have them.
So let's talk about 3D graphics.
Java3D, as you probably know,
we are working with Sun on that
and that's what I can tell you.
We're just working on that.
Geo4Java,
so what can you do if you actually want
to do 3D graphics in Java in Mac OS X?
Well, the answer is Geo4Java.
And to talk about this,
I would like to invite Ken Russell.
: So what we'd like to show
you is another demonstration
of a new feature in JDK 1.4.
and I are going to talk about
a new application called NewIO.
NewIO can help accelerate
your graphical applications,
although not the 2D graphical
applications that you've seen today.
It can actually help accelerate
3D graphical applications.
It can also accelerate
non-graphical applications,
like if you're doing
high-throughput sound.
Let's fire this up.
So this is not running off the iBook.
Oh, it isn't.
Okay, that's fine.
No problem.
That's good.
Okay, so what we've got here
is a large dataset.
It's a terrain dataset and this is
actually of the Grand Canyon in Arizona.
It's a pretty large data set.
It's about 300 megabytes in size,
and it's too large to fit in main
memory typically on most computers,
although actually not
on Mac OS X hardware.
So what do we have to do?
We have to take the data set and
downsample it to a reasonable size
that can actually be processed
by the computer in real time.
Now, what this application is showing
off is how you can use new I.O.
to do all of the processing
that's necessary to render this
terrain data set in real time in
the Java programming language.
[Transcript missing]
and David Levy are the two main speakers.
The first speaker is David Levy,
who is the
Now what's phenomenal about this is
that you can develop on OS X with
the great operating system,
the great developer tools,
and the great OpenGL implementation.
and you can get really
high performance out of it.
You can approach C++ speeds.
We're getting, frankly,
in some of these demo applications,
90 to 100% of C++ speed at this
point using the Hotspot JVM.
And you can deploy, in addition to OS X,
you can deploy on any platform
that has a JDK 1.4 implementation,
which is good for you, the developer,
because you get more possible
market penetration for your app,
but you get the advantage of
developing on a great operating
system with great hardware.
That's really all I've got to say.
Thanks, Ken.
That was great.
Go back to slides, please.
That was Ken,
sharing JL for Java and native I.O.
Now, where to go from here?
Obviously, there are some interesting
Java sessions that you probably
should think about attending,
but also,
if you're interested in graphics,
I would like to reiterate that
you should pay close attention to
OpenGL and what we are doing with it.
So, there are many OpenGL sessions
in this year's WWDC.
I would encourage you to
at least check it out.
And let's go to Q&A.